# PODNAME: mop::manual::classes
# ABSTRACT: A manual for p5-mop

__END__

=pod

=head1 NAME

mop::manual::classes - A manual for p5-mop

=head1 GRAMMAR

Classes in the p5-mop are defined in the following way:

  class NAME
    ?<(.*)>
    ?(extends NAME)
    ?(with NAME ?(, NAME))
    ?(metaclass NAME)
    ?(is TRAIT ?(, TRAIT))
  BLOCK

The C<class> keyword is followed by a name.

Which is optionally followed by arbitrary metadata wrapped
inside parentheses (this will be passed into the constructor
of the metaclass).

Which is optionally followed by the C<extends> keyword
that is followed by the name of the class you wish to
subclass.

Which is optionally followed by the C<with> keyword that is
followed by a comma seperated list of the names of the roles
you wish to be composed into you class.

Which is optionally followed by the C<metaclass> keyword
that is followed by the name of the metaclass you wish to
be used in constructing this class.

Which is optionally followed by the C<is> keyword that is
followed by a comma seperated list of traits you wish to
be applied to your class.

After this comes a block, within which you can define
methods and attributes (refer to those docs for more info).

=head1 AUTHOR

Stevan Little <stevan.little@iinteractive.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2013 by Infinity Interactive.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
