package mop::manual::tutorials::moose_to_mop;
# ABSTRACT: A manual for p5-mop

__END__

=pod

=head1 NAME

mop::manual::tutorials::moose_to_mop - A manual for p5-mop

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This tutorial is an attempt to map some of the common Moose
concepts to their MOP equivalents.

=head2 Creating Classes

In Moose, a class is just a package which contains a
C<use Moose> declaration. After that, you use the Moose keywords:
C<extends> introduces inheritance, C<with> adds roles, and C<has>
creates attributes in the class. After this, any subroutines
created in the package are automatically added as methods of
the class.

In the MOP there are explicit class, method, and attribute
declarations. Here is a simple example:

    class Foo extends Bar with Baz, Gorch {
        has $!foo;
        has $!bar;

        method foo { ... }
        method set_bar ($b) { ... }
    }

This creates a class named C<Foo> which is a subclass of
the C<Bar> class and consumes the C<Baz> and C<Gorch> roles.
It contains two attributes, C<$!foo> and C<$!bar>, and two methods,
C<foo> and C<set_bar>. C<set_bar> takes one argument, C<$b>.

The specific details of attributes and methods will be discussed
later, but the above example should provide a basic overview
of the base syntax.

=head2 Constructing instances

Classes which do not explicitly extend a superclass will
automatically extend the C<mop::object> class. This class
will provide a C<new> method which can be used to construct
instances.

The C<new> method inherited from C<mop::object> accepts
a set of key/value pairs where the key is the name of an
attribute (minus the sigil). The instances created by the MOP
are opaque, meaning they are not HASH refs, and access to
the individual slots is only possible either inside a method
(where they are accessible as normal variables) or via the
MOP (the details of which are left as an exercise to the
reader).

=head3 BUILDARGS

If you wish to override the default constructor's behavior
with regard to arguments, then you simply create a C<new>
method yourself to accept different parameters, then
munge those parameters into key/value pairs before
calling the C<mop::object> constructor with C<next::method>.

This is very similar to overriding the C<BUILDARGS> method
in a Moose class. Here is a short example:

    class Foo {
        has $!bar;

        method new ($class: $b) {
            $class->next::method( bar => $b );
        }
    }

It should be noted that any attempt to assign to an attribute
will result in an error. So if you either need access to
C<$self> or attributes, you can do this inside of the C<BUILD>
method, which will be automatically called from C<new>.

=head3 BUILD

As with Moose, if you need to perform initialization on an
instance, you can use the C<BUILD> method for that.

Here is a simple example where the C<bar> argument to the
constructor is not actually stored, but instead is processed
first, then stored in the C<$!double_bar> attribute.

    class Foo {
        has $!double_bar;

        method BUILD ($args) {
            $!double_bar = $args->{'bar'} * 2
                if exists $args->{'bar'};
        }
    }

=head2 Creating Attributes

Below is the list of options for the Moose C<has> keyword.
With each of them we will show an example of how to
accomplish the same with the MOP.

=over 4

=item I<is =E<gt> 'rw'|'ro'>

This is supported by the core C<ro> and C<rw> traits,
which are applied with the C<is> modifier. Here is a
simple example:

    class Foo {
        has $!bar is ro;
        has $!baz is rw;
    }

=item I<isa =E<gt> $type_name>

There is currently no support for types in the MOP. It is
possible, however, to create a C<type> trait that can perform
the same validation, and even use Moose type constraints.
See F<t/400-traits/003-type-trait.t> for an example.

=item I<coerce =E<gt> (1|0)>

As was said with the C<isa> option, there is no support for
types in the MOP. However it would be possible to extend the
C<type> trait in F<t/400-traits/003-type-trait.t> to also
do coercion. It might look like this:

    class Foo {
        has $!bar is type( isa => 'SomeType', coerce => 1 );
    }

Actual implementation of this is left as an exercise for
the reader.

=item I<does =E<gt> $role_name>

This option is really just a shortcut for a type assignment
so the suggestions in the above two options apply here as well.

=item I<required =E<gt> (1|0)>

Required attributes are easily mimicked through the MOP without
even needing a trait. Here is how they are accomplished:

    class Foo {
        has $!bar = die '$!bar is required';
    }

When an instance of C<Foo> is created and no value is supplied
for C<$!bar>, then the default will be executed, which in this
case will simply die with the error message.

=item I<weak_ref =E<gt> (1|0)>

Weak references are accomplished using the C<weak_ref> trait
that is core in the MOP. Here is a simple example:

    class Tree {
        has $!parent is weak_ref;
    }

=item I<lazy =E<gt> (1|0)>

Lazy attributes are supported via the core C<lazy> trait. Here
is a simple example of that:

    class Foo {
        has $!bar is lazy;
    }

Unlike Moose, where lazy attributes are only re-created if
the slot has not been populated, in MOP they will be populated
both if the slot has not been populated and if the value in
the slot is undef. This is more in line with how regular scalars
work, meaning that if you define a scalar with C<my $foo;> then
it is implicitly undef and not some special "not assigned to"
value.

=item I<trigger =E<gt> $code>

There is no specific way to do C<trigger> yet, but take a look at
F<t/400-traits/020-moose-traits.t> for a naive (and mostly wrong)
version.

=item I<handles =E<gt> ARRAY | HASH | REGEXP | ROLE | ROLETYPE | DUCKTYPE | CODE>

There is no specific way to do C<handles> yet, but take a look at
F<t/400-traits/020-moose-traits.t> for a simple version that
supports the basic HASH syntax.

NOTE: This will very likely be put into the core traits, but
for now it is not.

=item I<traits =E<gt> [ @role_names ]>

This is not currently supported, and honestly, probably never
will be, since it is highly Moose specific.

=item I<builder> => Str

There is no special trait for C<builder>. Instead, you simply
use the existing syntax for assigning default values to attributes
and just call a method. Here is an example:

    class Foo {
        has $!bar = $_->build_bar;

        method build_bar { ... }
    }

The standard perl topic variable (C<$_>) is localized to be the
current instance when running the builders, so you can use it
to access the current invocant.

=item I<default> => SCALAR | CODE

There is also no special trait for C<default>. Instead you
use the existing syntax. Here is how you would provide a simple
default value:

    class Foo {
        has $!bar = 10;
        has $!baz = {};
    }

Pretty much anything you can stick in a scalar variable can go
on the right hand side of a C<has> expression.

If you need to initialize a more complex value, but for some
reason do not want to use the C<builder> style approach,
you can wrap your default value in a C<do> block, like so:

    class Foo {
        has $!bar = do {
            $_->bar_has_been_touched;
            100;
        };
    }

While this works, most often it is better to use the C<builder>
approach.

=item I<clearer> => Str

There is no special trait for C<clearer>. Instead it is
recommended that you write a simple method that follows this
pattern instead.

    class Foo {
        has $!bar;

        method clear_bar { undef $!bar }
    }

If C<$!bar> was lazy, this would force a recalculation of
C<$!bar> the next time that C<$!bar> was accessed.

=item I<predicate> => Str

There is no special trait for C<predicate>. Instead it is
recommended that you write a simple method that follows this
pattern instead.

    class Foo {
        has $!bar;

        method has_bar { defined $!bar }
    }

It should be noted that if C<$!bar> was lazy, this would
force evaluation of C<$!bar>. If you want to test if a lazy
value is yet to be initialized, you need to go through the
MOP to get that. Here is what that code would look like.

    mop::meta($self)->get_attribute('$!bar')->has_data_in_slot_for($self)

The real lesson here is that if you want lazy and
predicates, you should implement the accessors yourself. See
F<t/001-examples/003-binary-tree.t> for an example of that.

=item I<documentation> => $string

This is not currently supported in the MOP and likely
won't be. To the best of my knowledge it was hardly
ever actually used in Moose.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Since this module is still under development we would prefer to not
use the RT bug queue and instead use the built in issue tracker on
L<Github|http://www.github.com>.

=head2 L<Git Repository|https://github.com/stevan/p5-mop-redux>

=head2 L<Issue Tracker|https://github.com/stevan/p5-mop-redux/issues>

=head1 AUTHOR

Stevan Little <stevan.little@iinteractive.com>

Jesse Luehrs <doy@tozt.net>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2013-2014 by Infinity Interactive.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
